From the ancient times and for your information,
the great [Vyasa] was the son of a fisherwoman,
the one who wrote Gita.
And Valmiki who wrote Ramayana
was himself a fisherman.
Then you know that Christ had
twelve fishermen as his disciples.
If you’ve seen this place,
how they are surrounded by beautiful nature,
by these beautiful trees of coconuts,
which represent the ‘shripala’, it is Sahasrara,
and it is very amazing that
no fruit will fall upon you.
It does not fall even on an animal.
They know when to fall down, it’s very surprising.
People sleep under these trees;
nobody has been hit, so far.
[Laughter]
So now we are in a beautiful surrounding.
It is very conducive to our spiritual life
and to our meditative efforts.
First of all, this makes you feel
extremely small and very big.
When you look at these trees,
and you look at the nature, and look at the sun,
you feel like you are one of them.
When you look at the sea, you think,
Now the little drop has become the sea.
So this kind of beautiful feeling comes into you.
And I wish you start your journey
with this nice dip in the Arabian sea.
You can cleanse yourself completely
and feeling very happy and relaxed.
I’m sorry we had to do all this tonight,
though you have come after a long journey,
but there is no other time when we can do it.
So, you don’t mind keeping awake for a while.
In England, even now, it’s evening time only.
We have to give bandhan to our, other
Sahaja Yogis who are coming via Karachi,
I don’t know why they took that route.
But whatever it is, give them a bandhan
and I hope they will be back soon.
May God bless you.
We have been able to get some mattresses,
or what you call the matts.
We call them ‘gadies’.
These are hands spun and woven,
‘khadi’ absolutely, purely ‘khadi’ things,
made by villagers.
And I hope you enjoy them.
It’s a little present from Me, for your comfort.
Then, I have another job:
we have all the saris for all the ladies here.
Put them together.
I didn’t know how to solve this
problem, it’s very difficult.
Now it’s all numbered.
But I don’t know if you people know your numbers.
One or two, three persons have to come up
and see for themselves after taking these things,
come up and take these saris and
arrange it for all the ladies.
We have calculated, I think, we have to pay about
[Shri Mataji speaks in Marathi]
425 rupees for this.
For the four saris and for
petticoats and for blouses,
I think it’s not too much.
Now those ladies who have taken bigger ones
can return it for the men
and take the smaller ones.
[Laughter]
Those who have taken the
bigger ones, please return it.
I mean, if you are really very
tall, you can keep it also.
For a tall lady, you need a big one.
I hope you enjoy them.
Fortunately, I found them and
luckily they were 300 in number.
[Laughter]
You are all so very lucky.
Everything is arranged for you.
Beautiful colours, aren’t they? Beautiful.
Now this sari business.
We should have some ladies who can manage it.
When the men start taking those things,
the ladies can come up and can see for themselves.
[Conversation in Marathi]
Ah, better come up here.
Call Alganesh, she is very good.
Alganesh, are you there? Ruth, is she there?
Now, just see, you have to
take the names of the people.
Now take it. How can you read it?
Just see the names, the names are there.
Sahaja Yogini: From Spain, Angel Garcia …
[Cut in the audio]
60% less for things like that, imagine!
And you are, you’re very lucky.
When I have to buy something
for myself, it’s very expensive.
[Laughter]
That’s what I say that, “It’s by
your mother’s grace that it works
but what about me?”
I have to live by your grace.
[Cut in the audio]
In Marathi, it is said that,
“The saints are for the salvation of the world”.
And the other way round could be that,
“The world is for the salvation of the saints”.
You can imagine the situation of the saints.
[Laughter]
[Cut in the audio]
… and you can see
also, and there are weddings.
So, I want you all to know each other,
the names and everything.
Go back to that.
Sahaja Yogini: Athena …
[Cut in the audio]
And some need not have the
second, the second three buses.
The second part of the three
buses who came later on,
you can have your dinner now.
And then good morning again!
[Laughter]
So, tomorrow, you can get
up at three [unsure] here,
whenever you feel like.
You can go to the seashore
and about eleven o’clock, we’ll start the puja.
You can have a bath in the
morning, in the seashore.
At eleven o’clock, we’ll have the puja
when all the people are coming from Bombay.
So, for all of you, we have got the stains.
I think you have been allotted, and
you know where to stay and what to do.
And I think every time, you
must change your groups.
Don’t sleep in the same group.
Because we have a bad habit of
forming a group all the time,
clubbing together.
So best thing is to sleep in
different tents every night,
or maybe every place.
Now I have got your saris also,
which I’ll give it to you in
Pune, for your international puja,
for 12 countries.
We are not going to do it the way we did before,
because then, there are more saris
than I am really trying to reduce them.
So, it will be according to every country
and whatever puja falls in
that country, we’ll use that.
Now the third thing is that
your [Conversation in Marathi].
The Khadi Wale people have
come, for your kurta pyjamas.
So if you want, you can – [Marathi].
If you want you can buy now, or
tomorrow morning, whatever it is.
The people have brought kurta and pyjamas for you.
Also, please give your measurements.
If you want to have silk kurta
and pyjamas, whatever you want,
with your measurements, you need to ask
so that it will be ready for
Ganapatipule and for the weddings.
So that, the measurement has to be given
and there are people who
are willing to do it for us.
Also for the weddings, for the
ladies, it’s very difficult to say,
but those who are getting married will hardly,
will have hardly any time.
And their saris will be
arriving in that Ganapatipule.
Or if you can decide earlier, we
can arrange it somewhere else.
But the blouses have to be stitched
and I don’t know how we are
going to manage all that.
Huh? [Conversation in Marathi].
We have to still decide who
are going to get married.
But they have got saris for marriages.
[Laughter]
Now anyone of you who thinks that
you can buy the sari this time,
or give the name or you like
the saris, can do it here.
And if you don’t get married
this year, keep it for next year!
[Laughter]
I don’t know what to do, because
it’s such a jammed programme.
But if you can now select the sari,
the advantage will be that
we can get a blouse for it.
[Conversation in Marathi about the price].
Shri Mataji: Maximum?
Sahaja Yogini: Maximum more than 1000.
Shri Mataji: From 800.
Sahaja Yogini: From 800 to 1500.
Shri Mataji: It is from 800 to 1000 to 1500.
So if you think that you should
buy now, you can buy now.
We can make the blouse also for you.
Or else, on the wedding day, you
cannot have your blouse done.
That’s the problem is.
So, I leave it to you because
this is the situation.
I also haven’t seen yet, those who
want to get married and all that.
But I think you can buy and if
you don’t, but you like also,
it’s a good sari you can always wear it.
And that’s all I can say.
Because if the blouse has to be stitched,
our tailors are getting crazy
now, they don’t know what to do.
[Laughter]
Now you have got numbers.
All of you have got numbers
for your blouses and things?
You find out your number and you have to say,
“This is the number for this
sari”, so that it can be done.
So, those who want to buy saris can buy.
Then if you remember we were giving those
pearls set for 525 rupees, if you remember?
All the things we wear and all those things.
They are also available now.
Those who want to buy for themselves
or those men who want to buy or anything,
they have to be ready in Ganapatipule.
They are not yet ready so they’ll come down there.
That is 525 rupees for one
necklace and ear and the bangles
which is quite a cheap price
for the whole [unclear].
So for that, if you want,
you can deposit the money
or if you want, you can
later on buy in Ganapatipule.
Now I have asked them to
bring 100 sets. One hundred.
I don’t know how many of you
would like to buy. All right.
So, whatever is possible, we’ve done,
and I hope you’ll enjoy your tour here.
And in this Spartan living,
you enjoy the beauty of this country
and also the beauty of [unclear].
And please develop a temperament by which
you do not see too small, small things,
but think of higher things, because you are Yogis,
you are one with the Divine.
And you have to think of that Divinity
within you, which has to manifest itself,
and you should not worry about
small, small things of comfort,
or small things that can worry you normally.
Now you have become something above normal,
and that’s what we have to develop that habit
of just enjoying whatever is a disadvantage,
converting it into an advantage.
Now here, I hope, you like this place very much.
Then we are going to Nasik,
where, near a river, we will be camping ourselves.
It’s a river flowing, you can
have nice baths and things.
Also then, from there, Sangam area, [unclear].
Then you are going to Pune, to
another very beautiful place
where there is lot of water for you
to swim and wonderful place that one.
Like that, one after another, I
have tried to choose the best places
and of nature for you.
Not so much as hotels and things, so
little discomfort does are not matter,
because to live in a tent is not so comfortable.
I hope you will not make yourself
miserable for nothing at all.
And enjoy every part of it,
enjoy every minute of it.
We have tried to arrange whatever
is possible under the circumstances.
And also, tomorrow the Sahaja Yogis from
Bombay want to give you some sort of a shawl,
which they will be bringing.
So, I think they will give
you some shawls as presents.
Anything else you need, let us
know and let these people know.
We must give a hand to Ima and Umar, both of them,
who have done so much of work
in collecting these blouses and petticoats
and matching them and saris and everything.
And we have to thank the [unclear] house,
which has given us such a big concession.
So we must give also to, a hand to Vimal
who has done so much concession for us.
[Applause]
Now she has brought saris for you,
those who want to buy for marriage, or otherwise,
or those who want to buy say,
for their wives or in any way.
She has brought saris.
In case, if they fall short, she can get more.
You can have a look at them and see for yourself.
But I think her prices are very
reasonable and she has reduced them.
She went all the way to
Benares to get saris for you.
So, I think you will all
enjoy choosing the saris also.
And now I’ll take your leave,
while these people are here,
and you can see that.
Thank you very much.
[Sahaja Yogini speaks in Marathi]
[End of recording.]